Document executor syntax and merging policy (#114)
kubeshop/botkube-docs: content/configuration/executor.md

---
menutitle: "Executor"
title: "Executor"
weight: 23
---

The executor property allows you to define multiple executor groups that can be later referred by communication bindings. For example, take a look on such executor definition:

```yaml
executors:
  'kubectl-global':      # This is an executor name, which is used in bindings
    kubectl:
      # ... trimmed ...

  'kubectl-team-a-only':  # This is an executor name, which is used in bindings
    kubectl:
      # ... trimmed ...
```

This can be later used by the communication mediums:

```yaml
communications:
  'default-group':
    slack:
      channels:
        'default':
          bindings:
            executors: # The order is important for merging strategy.
              - kubectl-global       # The executor group name

>               - kubectl-team-a-only  # The executor group name

Author: I changed it, but it's quite often in our docs defines a `group`. I'm not sure if it's a good change.

      enabled: false
      # List of allowed `kubectl` commands.
      commands:
        # Configures which `kubectl` methods are allowed.
        verbs: ["api-resources", "api-versions", "cluster-info", "describe", "diff", "explain", "get", "logs", "top", "auth"]
        # Configures which K8s resource are allowed.
        resources: ["deployments", "pods", "namespaces", "daemonsets", "statefulsets", "storageclasses", "nodes", "configmaps"]
      # Configures the default Namespace for executing BotKube `kubectl` commands. If not set, uses 'default'.
      defaultNamespace: default
      # If true, enables commands execution from configured channel only.
      restrictAccess: false
```

The default configuration for Helm chart can be found in [values.yaml](https://github.com/kubeshop/botkube/blob/main/helm/botkube/values.yaml).

## Merging strategy

BotKube takes into account only bindings for a given execution Namespace. For example:

1. `@BotKube get po/botkube -n botkube` - collect `kubectl` executor bindings that include `botkube` or `all` Namespaces.
2. `@BotKube get po -A` - collect all `kubectl` executor bindings that include `all` Namespace.

> 3. `@BotKube get po` - first, we resolve the execution Namespace. For that, we collect all enabled `kubectl` executor bindings and check the `defaultNamespace` property. If property is not define, we use the `default` Namespace. With resolved execution Namespace, we run the logic define in the first step.

Reviewer: 1. I think that should be a separate paragraph or subparagraph - as it doesn't relate to general merging strategy, but rather `kubectl` executor and how it behaves. WDYT?
2. Probably bullet points would be better as this is not an ordered list 🙂

Author: 1. I would leave it as it is for now. If we have more executors, we will have a clear use-case how to separate that 👍  For example, dedicated sections, files etc. We will also know what will be common for them.

For all collected `kubectl` executors, we merge properties with the following strategy:
- `commands.verbs` - append
- `commands.resources` - append
- `commands.defaultNamespace` - override
- `commands.restrictAccess` - override

The order of the binding list is important as it impacts properties that are overridden. The priority is given to the last binding specified on the list.

### Example

Let's consider such configuration:
```yaml
communications:
  'default-group':
    slack:
      channels:
        'default':
          name: "random"
          bindings:
            executors:

>               - kubectl-pod
>               - kubectl-wait
>               - kubectl-all-ns
>               - kubectl-exec

Reviewer: It needs to be adjusted to make the last paragraph true:
```suggestion
              - kubectl-pod
              - kubectl-all-ns
              - kubectl-exec
              - kubectl-wait
```

Author: Why?

Reviewer: Oh, right, `kubectl-exec` has `restrictAccess: false` and I missed that it is not enabled 👍

executors:
  'kubectl-pod':
    kubectl:
      enabled: true
      namespaces:
        include: [ "botkube", "default" ]
      commands:
        verbs: [ "get" ]
        resources: [ "pods" ]
      restrictAccess: false
  'kubectl-wait':
    kubectl:
      enabled: true
      namespaces:
        include: [ "botkube", "default" ]
      commands:
        verbs: [ "wait" ]
      restrictAccess: true
  'kubectl-all-ns':
    kubectl:
      enabled: true
      namespaces:
        include:
          - all
      commands:
        verbs: [ "get" ]
        resources: [ "deployments" ]
  'kubectl-exec':
    kubectl:
      enabled: false
      namespaces:
        include: [ "botkube", "default" ]
      commands:
        verbs: [ "exec" ]
      restrictAccess: false
```

> We can see that:
> - for `botkube` and `default` Namespaces we can get and wait for Pods. This is the result of merging `kubectl-pod` and `kubectl-wait`.
> - for all Namespaces we can only get Deployments as specified by `kubectl-all-ns`.
> - the `exec` command is not allowed as the `kubectl-exec` binding is disabled (`kubectl.enabled=false`). As a result is not taken into account.
> - the `kubectl` works in a restricted access because the `kubectl-wait` binding is the last one which is both enabled and sets the `restrictAccess` property to a particular value.

Reviewer: If there is a period at the end of sentence:

```suggestion
We can see that:
- For `botkube` and `default` Namespaces, we can execute `get` and `wait` commands for Pods. This is the result of merging `kubectl-pod` and `kubectl-wait`.
- For all Namespaces we can execute `get` for Deployments, as specified by `kubectl-all-ns`.
- The `exec` command is not allowed as the `kubectl-exec` binding is disabled (`kubectl.enabled` is set to `false`).
- The `kubectl` works in a restricted access because the `kubectl-wait` binding is enabled and sets the `restrictAccess` property to a `true`. The `kubectl-wait` was specified as the last item of executor bindings, so it overrides values `restrictAccess: false` from other bindings.
```

Author: I applied changes for the first 3 points but I don't agree with the 4th one:
```
- For `botkube` and `default` Namespaces, we can execute `get` and `wait` commands for Pods. This is the result of merging `kubectl-pod` and `kubectl-wait`.
- For all Namespaces we can execute `get` for Deployments, as specified by `kubectl-all-ns`.
- The `exec` command is not allowed as the `kubectl-exec` binding is disabled (`kubectl.enabled` is set to `false`).
- The `kubectl` works in a restricted access because the `kubectl-wait` binding is the **last one** which is both enabled and sets the `restrictAccess` property to `true`.
```
